# Review of Cancel Culture in Climate  
Book Link: [https://smile.amazon.com/Cancel-Culture-Climate-Jenny-Morgan/dp/B0DSLQXSWL/](https://smile.amazon.com/Cancel-Culture-Climate-Jenny-Morgan/dp/B0DSLQXSWL/)

I know Jenny from my time at Microsoft and with the Green Software Foundation so I am definitely coming into this aith at least some bias. I think she does an admirable job of having the conversation around "canceling" vs accountability. There is a lot of nuance in this conversation, which she describes well, and I ultimately land on the same side as her where there needs to be a path back for people that oppose sustainability at first, or really any other issue we face. That path involves taking accountability for your actions and making changes to the way you operate so those things don't happen again. Often, those changes are rooting in education and expanding your knowledge or experience. You can't force somebody to learn something, so taking accountability is something the individual has to do on their own. I really liked her lighthearted, yet clear, writing style and how she connected her points to her personal life, family, and modern events. I could see how it could be alienating if you aren't familiar with some of the references, but most of these could be gleaned through context. Oh, maybe its a change for others to educate themselves -- or as Jenny says in the book "Stepping over our ego is key to progress" :-)   

 

Some highlights from my reading (seems that my highlights were offset at some point and are missing sections)
1. sustainability career, I was asked to work on an article for one of the world’s biggest tech companies ahead of the United Nations Conference of the Parties, otherwise known as COP. This was COP26 in Glasgow, November 2021, and I was working at important work on inclusion and social
2. Technocrats. This group advocates for governmental and institutional accountability because they believe in the power of policy and regulation. They often engage in lobbying around public policy, taxation, and legal action. This group tends to find other solutions distracting and believes that without regulation, key contributors will continue to find ways to pollute and emit. Technocrats are a small but vocal group. 
3. Stewards. Passionate about environmental conservation, this group focuses on tangible issues like wildlife protection and pollution control. They are often involved in grassroots movements and local initiatives, animal rights, and solutions that leverage Earth’s natural ability to heal. 
4. Climate concerned. With a focus on topics like public mobilization for decarbonization, their discussions about climate action often carry a combative or challenging tone. They are likely to belittle those who do not agree with them. 
5. Generalists. Most likely to express positive sentiments across all environmental issues, with a particular
6. Smart alecks. This group tends to be off-putting. They need to be right about everything and show that they know more than you. They are more likely than the climate concerned to engage in negative online responses because, after all, they know best!
7. Reserved. These individuals are often disengaged due to feelings of helplessness or skepticism about the impact of individual actions on climate change. They may also be influenced by misinformation or a lack of exposure to credible environmental information. They either believe that it is too late and pointless to do anything, or they simply feel as if the climate conversation should be addressed by someone else. They do not participate in climate action.
8. The clear and obvious response is “We need both!” But you’d be amazed (or, if you’re already in the climate space like me, constantly dismayed) by the number of people who pick one camp and vehemently oppose the other.
9. I shared this observation with my son, and he asked that I please stop talking
10. Thinking about the middle path can be difficult under extreme stress and climate change is extremely stressful.
11. the Salem Witch Trials are now considered a tragic example of mass hysteria, fear-based thinking, and injustice with zero due process. From February 1692 to May 1693, twenty people were murdered during these socalled trials by public hanging or being stoned to death, while many more died in jail awaiting their fate.
12. By focusing solely on household and consumer recycling, they effectively shifted the responsibility for addressing environmental issues on to you, while absolving themselves of any meaningful accountability.
13. There are many examples of logical thinking that we apply to our daily behaviors. Yet when applied to climate, or any effort that requires diverse collaboration, our logical thinking crumbles.
14. The hard truth for us as consumers is, if you are not able to dive deep into every headline or are not an expert in the topic, then you must intentionally resist the urge to weigh in.
15. VW executive Oliver Schmidt, who oversaw emissions issues, was sentenced to seven years in prison and fined $400,000, while the firm itself faced several multibillion-dollar lawsuits from national governments.
16. We must celebrate entities that are progressing their sustainability goals, being transparent about their needs, setting measurable targets, and willing to ask for help when those targets prove challenging. For those bold enough to take these steps, the rewards are plentiful.
17. cancel culture is the terminal illness, while accountability is the wellness plan.
18. Two-thirds of the Gen Z and Millennial generations report they are willing to pay more for products and services that are ethically and sustainably made. Up to 79 percent say they would switch brands if a competitor offered a more sustainable version of the same product.
19. Business leaders have an opportunity to foster customer loyalty and increase brand value by positively addressing the social and environmental challenges we face.
20. altruism encourages individuals to transcend individual interests and collaborate towards collective solutions.
21. The Gallup Global Climate Change Survey found that a large majority of individuals, 69 percent to be exact, would even be willing to contribute 1 percent of their household income every month to fight global warming.
22. we don’t like to pay now, whether financially or emotionally, even if the cost is significantly higher in the long run.
23. Embracing humility and acknowledging mistakes can pave the way for meaningful change. By admitting faults and learning from past errors, we demonstrate a willingness to listen, adapt, and improve.
24. Stepping over our ego is key to progress.
